My professional experience working in the Nigerian health industry made me realize some gaps in the utilization of data and the flow of information. This problem starts from the data collection phase and extends to its use. Further research revealed that this is a common trend in developing nations. I believe the first steps are to improve the ways we collect health-related data, prioritize digitizing the data as opposed to our current practices of paper-based record keeping, and optimize security and safety. Only then are we on the right path to use data to gain actionable insights that improve health outcomes in developing nations. My goal is to leverage data and technology and introduce the best practices to the Nigerian health industry. The Ph.D. program in biomedical and Health Informatics would provide me with the required research skills and experience to contribute to this effort.

My education and professional experience so far have prepared me for graduate school. My undergraduate training in physical therapy had a significant basic medical, clinical, and research curriculum. There I took related classes including computer appreciation, medical biostatistics, and research methodology. I spent the last eighteen months in physical therapy school conducting research by testing the usability of a virtual gaming system as a therapeutic for people with low back pain. This undergraduate dissertation was later published in a peer-reviewed journal. I have since been a licensed physical therapist in Nigeria and I have worked in various settings. I improved skills like clinical reasoning, working with patients, and information dissemination in a multidisciplinary team. Additionally, to further prepare myself, I took relevant online courses in computer science, programming, and cloud technology.
 
In the quest for further knowledge on using Information technology and Communications(ICT) to reduce inefficiencies in the healthcare system, I decided to pursue a Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin Milwaukee. My objectives for the Ph.D. program are to develop experience and perform cutting-edge research in health information systems by integrating my experience and skills as a clinical physical therapist and a software and cloud developer. I believe that appropriate big data management, analysis, and interpretation, as well as computer science capabilities, will drive and improve the efficiency of the healthcare system. My research focus will be on the use of artificial intelligence to manage health records, highlight errors in treatments, and reduce workflow inefficiencies. I will use the knowledge and skills from graduate studies alongside my existing experience as a physiotherapist to develop user-friendly software that not only optimizes data collection and information processes but apply knowledge-based system processing to efficiently utilize the data collected to reduce inefficiencies surrounding decision-making, thereby providing the best management to the patients.


My professional experience working in the Nigerian health industry made me realize some gaps in the utilization of health data and the flow of information. These problems start from the data collection phase and extend to its use. Further research revealed that this is a common trend in developing nations. I believe the first steps to solving these problems are to improve the ways we collect health-related data, prioritize digitizing the data as opposed to our current practices of paper-based record keeping, and optimize security and safety. Only then are we on the right path to use data to gain actionable insights that improve health outcomes in developing nations. My goal is to leverage data and technology and introduce the best practices to the Nigerian health industry. The Ph.D. program in biomedical and Health Informatics would provide me with the required research skills and experience to contribute to this effort.

My education and professional experiences so far have prepared me for graduate school. My undergraduate training in physical therapy had a robust basic medical, clinical, and research curriculum. There, I took related classes including computer appreciation, medical biostatistics, and research methodology. I spent the last eighteen months in physical therapy school conducting research by testing the usability of a virtual gaming system as a therapeutic for people with low back pain. This undergraduate dissertation was later published in a peer-reviewed journal. I have since been a licensed physical therapist in Nigeria and have worked in various settings. I have improved skills like clinical reasoning, working with patients, and information dissemination in a multidisciplinary team. Additionally, to further prepare myself, I took relevant online courses in computer science, programming, and cloud technology.


In the quest for further knowledge on using Information technology and Communications(ICT) to reduce inefficiencies in the healthcare system, I decided to pursue a Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin Milwaukee. My objectives for the Ph.D. program are to develop experience and perform cutting-edge research in health information systems by integrating my experience and skills as a clinical physical therapist and a software and cloud developer. I believe that appropriate big data management, analysis, and interpretation, as well as computer science capabilities, will drive and improve the efficiency of the healthcare system. My research focus will be on the use of artificial intelligence to manage health records, highlight errors in treatments, and reduce workflow inefficiencies. I will use the knowledge and skills from graduate studies alongside my existing experience as a physiotherapist to develop user-friendly software that not only optimizes data collection and information processes but apply knowledge-based system processing to efficiently utilize the data collected to reduce inefficiencies surrounding decision-making, thereby providing the best management to the patients.





In my spare time, alongside my a levels, I completed a year's work experience as a teaching assistant at wesley high school, planning and delivering history lessons to groups of ccsc students, this was exciting as it lets me express my love for history in an active creative and intellectual manner. I particularly enjoy sharing my knowledge about the importance of key figures like hippocrates and galen in the history of medicine, explaining why religion led the people of the middle ages to whip themselves as a means of curing the black death was interesting as my class challenged me to develop and revisit my knowledge. This placement improves my willingness to adapt to a new environment and growing confidence while gaining leadership skills and juggling a part-time job, I also went volunteering in my highschool teaching history to gcse students

Being born and raised in Zimbabwe has sparked my interest in historical topics such as chattel slavery, conducting my epq on transalantic slave trade led me to read Eric Williams capitalism and slavery. I found Williams work thought provoking as it offers a different perspective why the British abolished the trade.


I am confident that studying … will provide me with the academic knowledge I need for the future when I begin leading reforms in Nigeria and neighboring countries. My mission is to work in a global community dedicated to ensuring that all children receive safe and uncompromised education. I want to learn how to use technological resources and combine them with local existing knowledge of affected communities and create innovative solutions for educational advancement. The practical nature of this course strongly appeals to me as it combines academic thinking with practical solutions


I take great pride in the network and community I am building and it gives me great privilege to mentor aspiring who want to shape their own narratives and future


Once at … I hope to engage with the works of leading professors such as … in particular profs … research on …. and her focus on …. greatly interests me as a ….


I want to be at the heart of decision making to lead and form global communities dedicated to addressing the urgent international education crisis
Quite simply, I want to study … so I can sit at the table with future leaders turn my passions into solutions and become an agent of change for current and future generations across the globe

This is exciting as it allowed me to express my love for history in an active creative and intellectual manner, i particularly enjoyed sharin my knowledge about the importance of key figures likehippocrates and galen in the history of medicine. This placement improved my willingness to adpt to new environment while gaining leadership skills
Why did you do it (motivation) What was the gain, what was the motivaton


My enthusiasm for history began at a early stage, for me it was not about merely memorizing dates names and events, it was about incidental facts, th factors that shape our society, politics and economy, quite simply, i want to understand the world around me and my place in it

